doc/source/manual/Develop with Kasper/Events.rst, before:

.. _events:

CQRS: Events
============

Events are the nervous system of the Kasper platform.

Their counter-part are the event listeners, which can be defined either in the **COMMAND** or **QUERY**
architectural areas.

**Command listeners** receive events and send commands or interact with some domain services.

**Query listeners** denormalize events within query indexes.

Events
------

Kasper events are defined as immutable, anemic objects, implementing the **Event**  interface and
can optionally define metadata using the **@XKasperEvent** annotation, its class name ends with the
'**Event**' prefix (recommended).

A base implementation is provided by the **AbstractEvent** class (recommended).

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractEvent {
        private final KasperId userSource;
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource, final KasperId userTarget) {
            super(context);

            this.userSource = userSource;
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.userSource;
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }

Domain events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your event is originated from a domain (not a management event or other out-of-domain generated event), you have to
use the **DomainEvent** interface instead, provided with the default implementation **AbstractDomainEvent**.

**A major part of your events should be domain events**

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractDomainEvent<MyDomain> {
        private final KasperId userSource;
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource, final KasperId userTarget) {
            super(context);

            this.userSource = userSource;
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.userSource;
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }


Domain entity events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As a vast majority of cases, events have as major concern a specific domain entity, the interface **EntityEvent<Domain, Entity>** is
provided, with a default implementation **AbstractEntityEvent<Domain, Entity>**.

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractEntityEvent<MyDomain, User> {
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource,
                                    final KasperId userTarget, final DateTime lastModificationDate) {
            super(context, userSource, lastModificationDate);
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.getEntityId();
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }

Entity-relationship events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your entity is an aggregate root (Concept or Relation), an entity which is persisted as a whole with its enclosed entities, you'll prefer to use either :

- **ConceptRootEvent<Domain, ConceptRoot>** interface, with its default implementation **AbstractConceptRootEvent<Domain, ConceptRoot>**.
- **RelationRootEvent<Domain, RelationRoot>** interface, with its default implementation **AbstractRelationRootEvent<Domain, RelationRoot>**.

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractConceptRootEvent<MyDomain, User> {
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource,
                                    final KasperId userTarget, final DateTime lastModificationDate) {
            super(context, userSource, lastModificationDate);
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.getEntityId();
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }

The interest of using these two last events is awesome as it allows a immediate graph-oriented denormalization of your events, for instance
as a default datastore in a graph database. **Do not negligate it !**


Event listeners
---------------

An event listener "just" listens for events..

A Kasper event listener have to extend the **AbstractEventListener<Event>**, declaring its owning domain using the **@XKasperEventListener** annotation,
and have a name ending with '**EventListener**' (recommended).

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEventListener( domain = MyDomain.class, description = "Send a email when two users are connected" )
    public class SendAnEmailWhenTwoUsersAreConnectedEventListener extends AbstractEventListener<UsersAreNowConnectedEvent> {

        @Override
        public void handle(final UsersAreNowConnectedEvent event) {
            MailService.send(event.getUserSource(), event.getUserTarget(), MailTemplates.USERS_ARE_NOW_CONNECTED);            
            MailService.send(event.getUserTarget(), event.getUSerSource(), MailTemplates.USERS_ARE_NOW_CONNECTED);            
        }

    }


TODO: access easily the command gateway from the listeners

Commit message:

feature: added an easy way to access the command gateway within event listeners

doc/source/manual/Develop with Kasper/Events.rst, after:

.. _events:

CQRS: Events
============

Events are the nervous system of the Kasper platform.

Their counter-part are the event listeners, which can be defined either in the **COMMAND** or **QUERY**
architectural areas.

**Command listeners** receive events and send commands or interact with some domain services.

**Query listeners** denormalize events within query indexes.

Events
------

Kasper events are defined as immutable, anemic objects, implementing the **Event**  interface and
can optionally define metadata using the **@XKasperEvent** annotation, its class name ends with the
'**Event**' prefix (recommended).

A base implementation is provided by the **AbstractEvent** class (recommended).

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractEvent {
        private final KasperId userSource;
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource, final KasperId userTarget) {
            super(context);

            this.userSource = userSource;
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.userSource;
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }

Domain events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your event is originated from a domain (not a management event or other out-of-domain generated event), you have to
use the **DomainEvent** interface instead, provided with the default implementation **AbstractDomainEvent**.

**A major part of your events should be domain events**

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractDomainEvent<MyDomain> {
        private final KasperId userSource;
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource, final KasperId userTarget) {
            super(context);

            this.userSource = userSource;
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.userSource;
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }


Domain entity events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As a vast majority of cases, events have as major concern a specific domain entity, the interface **EntityEvent<Domain, Entity>** is
provided, with a default implementation **AbstractEntityEvent<Domain, Entity>**.

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractEntityEvent<MyDomain, User> {
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource,
                                    final KasperId userTarget, final DateTime lastModificationDate) {
            super(context, userSource, lastModificationDate);
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.getEntityId();
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }

Entity-relationship events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your entity is an aggregate root (Concept or Relation), an entity which is persisted as a whole with its enclosed entities, you'll prefer to use either :

- **ConceptRootEvent<Domain, ConceptRoot>** interface, with its default implementation **AbstractConceptRootEvent<Domain, ConceptRoot>**.
- **RelationRootEvent<Domain, RelationRoot>** interface, with its default implementation **AbstractRelationRootEvent<Domain, RelationRoot>**.

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEvent( action = MyDomainActions.IS_CONNECTED_TO )
    public class UsersAreNowConnectedEvent extends AbstractConceptRootEvent<MyDomain, User> {
        private final KasperId userTarget; 

        public UsersAreNowConnected(final Context context, final KasperId userSource,
                                    final KasperId userTarget, final DateTime lastModificationDate) {
            super(context, userSource, lastModificationDate);
            this.userTarget = userTarget;
        }

        public KasperId getUserSource() {
            return this.getEntityId();
        }

        public KasperId getUserTarget() {
            return this.userTarget;
        }
    }

The interest of using these two last events is awesome as it allows a immediate graph-oriented denormalization of your events, for instance
as a default datastore in a graph database. **Do not negligate it !**


Event listeners
---------------

An event listener "just" listens for events..

A Kasper event listener have to extend the **AbstractEventListener<Event>**, declaring its owning domain using the **@XKasperEventListener** annotation,
and have a name ending with '**EventListener**' (recommended).

**usage**

.. code-block:: java
    :linenos:

    @XKasperEventListener( domain = MyDomain.class, description = "Send a email when two users are connected" )
    public class SendAnEmailWhenTwoUsersAreConnectedEventListener extends AbstractEventListener<UsersAreNowConnectedEvent> {

        @Override
        public void handle(final UsersAreNowConnectedEvent event) {
            MailService.send(event.getUserSource(), event.getUserTarget(), MailTemplates.USERS_ARE_NOW_CONNECTED);            
            MailService.send(event.getUserTarget(), event.getUSerSource(), MailTemplates.USERS_ARE_NOW_CONNECTED);            
        }

    }

A common job of event listeners is to send new commands to the command gateway concerning its domain or another.
If you use the **AbstractEventListener**, you can access the **getCommandGateway()** getter in order to retrieve an (optional)
reference to the command gateway.
